---
  title: "Patteryfly 4.0.0 Alpha.2 Release"
  date: 2017-01-27
  author: Brian Leathem
  categories: ["PatternFly"]
  description:
  linktitle:
  featured:
  featuredpath:
  featuredalt:
  type: post
---

crosspost from: https://blog.patternfly.org/patternfly-4-0-0-alpha-2-release/

In the https://blog.patternfly.org/the-patternfly-roadmap/[PatternFly
Roadmap] we outlined our future plans for PatternFly and laid out the
goals for the PatternFly 4 release:

* Providing initial support for Angular 2 application development
* Updating the libraries on which Angular-Patternfly is built
* Making the dependence on jQuery optional when consuming
Angular-PatternFly

Today, we are excited to announce our first PatternFly 4 alpha release,
PatternFly 4.0.0-alpha.2  (we had to skip 4.0.0-alpha.1 due to some
known issues).  This blog provides some highlights of the release,
please check the release notes for
https://github.com/patternfly/patternfly/releases/tag/v4.0.0-alpha.2[PatternFly]
and
https://github.com/patternfly/angular-patternfly/wiki/Angular-PatternFly-4-Migration-Guide[Angular-PatternFly]
for further details.

The PatternFly 4 changes are centered around the javascript
implementations of our patterns.  The patterns and their CSS
implementations have not changed since PatternFly 3. There are no API
changes to PatternFly Core, however you will want to refer to the
migration guides for
https://github.com/patternfly/patternfly/wiki/PatternFly-4-Migration-Guide[PatternFly]
and
https://github.com/patternfly/angular-patternfly/wiki/Angular-PatternFly-4-Migration-Guide[Angular
PatternFly] for details on migrating your applications to PatternFly 4.

[[angular-patternfly]]
# Angular-PatternFly

[[directive-to-component-migration]]
## Directive to component migration

The primary driver for the PatternFly 4 release is to enable Angular 2
development through the re-factor of our Angular 1.x directives into
Angular 1.5+ components.  These components can be used in a “downgraded”
Angular 2 application.  All directives have been converted to
components, except the pfRemainingCharsCount, pfFocused, pfValidation,
and pfFixedAccordion directives.  We have provided a
https://github.com/patternfly/patternfly-angular2-demo-app[Angular 2
quickstart] that can be used as a starting point for your own PatternFly
Angular 2 applications.

[[optional-jquery]]
## Optional jQuery

With PatternFly 4, we’ve refactored our Angular modules to enable
development of Angular-PatternFly applications without bringing in the
jQuery dependency.  To take advantage of this, include the
patternfly-settings.js file from the PatternFly dependency, rather than
patternfly.js.  More details can be found in the associated
https://github.com/patternfly/angular-patternfly/pull/361[Github Pull
Request].

[[table-view-component]]
## Table View Component

New common component work has landed in PatternFly 4 with the
introduction of the Angular-PatternFly Table View component.  The table
view component leverages the
https://www.npmjs.com/package/angular-datatables[angular-datables] port
of the https://datatables.net/[datatables.net] library we are using in
PatternFly 4.  It brings the highly requested table view pattern
implementation to Angular.  Check out the
https://www.patternfly.org/angular-patternfly/#/api/patternfly.table.component:pfTableView%20-%20Basic[Angular-PatternFly
docs] for more details on using the table view in your Angular
applications.

[[patternfly-core]]
# PatternFly Core

[[jquery-component-split]]
## jQuery component split

We’ve refactored the monolithic patternfly.js file into a number of
separate source files with this PatternFly 4 release.  The goal was to
better enable developers to locate functionality and contribute to
PatternFly.  The individual files are still packaged into a single file
at build time, mimicking the PatternFly 3 distribution, as such there is
no migration step required in this regard for your applications.

[[ruby-now-optional-for-building-patternfly]]
## Ruby now optional for building PatternFly

Ruby is no longer required to build and contribute to the PatternFly
project.  Ruby was required due to our use of jekyll to provide code
samples that are used in both the development of PatternFly components,
as well as live examples on the patternfly.org site.  Having to install
ruby and the associated gems however presented a source of frustration
and an impediment to contribution from our javascript developer
community.

To overcome this hurdle, we’ve implemented a javascript tool to render
our jekyll test pages using the
https://github.com/sirlantis/liquid-node[liquid-node] library.  The full
jekyll build is however still available for those who have ruby
installed.  See the
https://github.com/patternfly/patternfly/tree/branch-4.0-dev#install-npm-dependencies[README]
for instructions on toggling the javascript/ruby build for PatternFly.

[[migration]]
# Migration

The migration steps associated with the above changes are being tracked
in
https://github.com/patternfly/patternfly/wiki/PatternFly-4-Migration-Guide[PatternFly
migration guide] and
https://github.com/patternfly/angular-patternfly/wiki/Angular-PatternFly-4-Migration-Guide[Angular-PatternFly
migration guide] wiki pages. These migration guides are works in
progress, please suggest any additions as you migrate your own
applications.

[[next-steps]]
# Next Steps

We will follow up with additional PatternFly 4 alpha releases as we
solidify our API and component changes.  Once we are API stable and
feature complete we will have a Beta release, followed by a final 4.0.0
release.  We will  continue with PatternFly 3 releases until PatternFly
4.0.0 is ready.  After the 4.0.0 release, we do not plan to have anymore
PatternFly 3 releases.

[[patternfly-5]]
PatternFly 5
~~~~~~~~~~~~

PatternFly 5 development has continued concurrent to the Patternfly 4
effort.  We are planning a 5.0.0-alpha.1 release in the coming weeks.
 Stay tuned for blogs and announcements detailing what we’ve been up to
with PatternFly 5.
