---
  title: "The Patternfly Roadmap"
  date: 2016-12-14
  author: Brian Leathem
  categories: ["PatternFly"]
  description:
  linktitle:
  featured:
  featuredpath:
  featuredalt:
  type: post
---

crosspost from: https://blog.patternfly.org/the-patternfly-roadmap/

The UXD team has been hard at work churning out
https://github.com/PatternFly/PatternFly/releases[PatternFly releases]
at a regular cadence, steadily increasing the number of design patterns
and design pattern implementations. In recent releases we introduced a
number of changes aimed at simplifying the consumption and contribution
processes for both designers and developers.

There are a number of ways we want to improve and scale out PatternFly
that can’t be addressed without introducing breaking changes to the
project. As such, we’ve had a series of planning meetings to address
those concerns and build out a roadmap for our community to plan around
and coordinate their efforts.

The PatternFly roadmap consists of two major releases over the course of
the next year. In PatternFly 4, the first of these major releases, we
will provide an immediate solution for developers looking to take
advantage of PatternFly in their Angular 2 applications. PatternFly 5
will follow with a more complete strategy for scaling out PatternFly by
taking a modular approach in both our pattern designs and
implementations.

[[patternfly-4-goals]]
# PatternFly 4
## Goals

The goals for PatternFly 4 are primarily focused on modernizing the
Angular-PatternFly project, and consist of:

* Providing initial support for Angular 2 application development
* Updating the libraries on which Angular-Patternfly is built
* Making the dependence on jQuery optional when consuming
Angular-PatternFly

[[angular-patternfly]]
### Angular-PatternFly

http://www.patternfly.org/angular-patternfly/[Angular-PatternFly] 4 will
consist of a refactor of all our Angular directives as
https://docs.angularjs.org/guide/component[Angular 1.5 components]. This
is a comparatively simple re-factor and enables
https://angular.io/[Angular 2] applications to consume our existing
pattern implementations. Look for additional blog posts detailing how to
build such Angular 2 applications as we roll out our initial Angular 1.5
components. This migration has the follow-on effect that all downstream
applications will have to upgrade to Angular 1.5 to stay current with
PatternFly releases.

In addition to this directive -> component refactor, we will introduce a
number of dependency upgrades into Angular-PatternFly with this major
release. Most notably we will update our
https://angular-ui.github.io/bootstrap/[ui-bootstrap] dependency to the
latest release, an update a number of developers have been asking for.

The Angular-PatternFly https://jquery.org/[jQuery] dependency will be
made optional in this 4.0 release. Several of our pattern
implementations will continue to be built around jQuery, but if an
application doesn’t use those patterns, then the jQuery dependency will
not be required.

It should be noted that these updates will result in some directive API
changes, implying minor code changes in downstream applications. It is
for this reason that we are incrementing the major version to 4 with
this release.

[[patternfly-core]]
### PatternFly “core”

The changes to our https://github.com/patternfly/patternfly[PatternFly
“core”] repository are less significant in the 4.0 release. They
primarily involve breaking apart the “core” repo into one for CSS and
one for the jQuery pattern implementations. Re-structuring the
repositories in this manner puts the jQuery pattern implementations on
an even level with the Angular-PatternFly implementations.

PatternFly consists of:

1.  Design patterns
2.  A CSS implementation of those design patterns
3.  Alternate javascript implementations of the behaviours associated
with the design patterns

image:https://blog.patternfly.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/slack-imgs-1024x344.png[slack-imgs]

[[release-timeline]]
### Release Timeline

We will have an initial alpha release of the PatternFly and
Angular-PatternFly projects in January. This first alpha is expected to
be sufficiently complete to try it out in downstream applications. We
will stabilize our APIs and implementations with follow-on alpha and
beta releases, aiming to get to a final release a timely manner.

[[patternfly-5]]
# PatternFly 5

[[goals]]
## Goals

The scope of PatternFly 5 is much larger than the scope of PatternFly 4.
With PatternFly 5, we are working to scale PatternFly in a number of
areas:

* Scaling adoption with a modular design system to increase the number
of use cases we can support
* Scaling design contributions by pioneering a design workflow centered
around github
* Scaling developer contributions with a modular approach in both our
CSS and javascript implementations
* Scaling support for new javascript frameworks
* Scaling supported devices with mobile considerations in our designs
patterns and their corresponding CSS/JS implementations
* Scaling target audiences with support for internationalisation and
accessibility
* Modernizing PatternFly with style changes around typography, font
size, spacing and gradients

The roadmap below covers how we’ve solved these challenges and are
pushing PatternFly forward to power great user experiences through open
source design.

[[modular-approach]]
## Modular approach

In PatternFly 5, we are adopting a modular approach in both our CSS and
Javascript implementations. This modular approach offers a number of
advantages:

* Easing the contribution process
* Facilitating piecewise consumption of our patterns
* Fostering a community of patterns around PatternFly

image:https://blog.patternfly.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/g11516-1024x505.png[image,width=580,height=286]

[[atomic-css]]
## Atomic CSS

We are using the
http://bradfrost.com/blog/post/atomic-web-design/[atomic design system]
by Brad Frost to implement our modular design system for PatternFly 5.
Implementing our CSS in such a modular fashion involves a full rewrite,
which provides a good opportunity to adopt
https://v4-alpha.getbootstrap.com/[Bootstrap 4]. We've also developed a
set
ofhttps://github.com/andresgalante/patternfly-atomic/blob/code-guidelines/CODE-GUIDELINES.md[CSS
guidelines] based on BEM to ensure we develop performant and
maintainable CSS.

[[web-components]]
## Web components

The PatternFly 4 work to move to Angular 1.5 components offers a useful
stop gap, enabling Angular 2 development, but does not offer a suitable
long term strategy. Nor does it address the requests to support React
and other web UI frameworks. To understand what it means for PatternFly
to support a web framework, let's review our current deliverables.

PatternFly 3 and 4 deliverables consist of:

1.  A CSS implementation of our design patterns
2.  Javascript implementations of pattern behaviours

The behaviors associated with patterns are implemented as both jQuery
plugins as well as Angular 1 directives/components. We could
support Angular 2 and React by developing both Angular 2 components and
React components, effectively doubling the number of behavior
implementations we develop and support for each pattern. However, this
is an approach that does not scale.

Instead, we are looking tohttp://webcomponents.org/[web components] as
the solution to scale out our PatternFly framework support. We are
focusing on the
https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/scripting.html#custom-elements[Custom
Element specification] in particular, and the corresponding
https://github.com/webcomponents/webcomponentsjs[polyfill]. We will
consider incorporating the remaining web component specifications into
our solution in the future, after they have had a chance to mature.

https://github.com/webcomponents/webcomponentsjs#browser-support[Browser
support] for custom elements (when incorporating the polyfill), provide
support for relatively current browser releases, and provides support
for IE as far back as IE 10. This is acceptable for new applications,
and applications that adopt modern browser support statements. We
recognize that there are applications in production that will have an
ongoing requirement to support older browsers for some time. We are
recommending applications with such requirements stay on PatternFly 4,
and wait to move to PatternFly 5 until their browser requirements are
aligned with what is supported by PatternFly 5.

[[internationalization-and-accessibility]]
## Internationalization and accessibility

Support for internationalization and accessibility are increasingly
requested features for PatternFly. However, retro-fitting those concerns
into our existing framework has proven to be a difficult task. As such,
we are baking solutions for these concerns into our web component
development process to ensure the problem is solved from the get-go in
PatternFly 5.

[[design-and-style-changes]]
## Design and style changes

[[decision-tree]]
### Decision tree

As recommended by the guidelines of the Atomic design system, we are
employing a decision tree to formalize the criteria that prospective
patterns will be evaluated against before including them in PatternFly.
A draft of our decision tree is included below. Refer to Andres
Galante’s blog post for more details of how we plan to
https://blog.patternfly.org/the-tree-of-wisdom/[apply the decision
tree].

image:https://blog.patternfly.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/patternfly-decision-tree-1024x386.png[patternfly-decision-tree,width=580,height=219]

[[mobile-support]]
### Mobile support

While PatternFly is built around Bootstrap, and Bootstrap is responsive,
not all of our patterns are themselves responsive. With PatternFly 5 we
will revisit mobile-relevant patterns and make sure they are indeed
responsive and progressively enhanced, both in their design and
implementation.

[[updated-style-guidelines]]
### Updated style guidelines

Additional style changes involve a move to the Overpass font, designing
a new Typography system, and increasing the base type sizing. Read more
about this in Kyle Baker’s blog
post: https://blog.patternfly.org/choosing-the-best-font-for-application-design/[Choosing
the Best Font for Application Design].

Additionally we’ve had to revise the spacing of the entire library to
accommodate the new modular design system and update the documentation
and artifacts to reflect these new styling changes.

[[the-patternfly-5-flywheel]]
The PatternFly 5 “flywheel”
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The redevelopment effort for PatternFly 5 can be summarized with the
following diagram. We start by applying the decision tree to evaluate
the pattern and consider breaking it down into common components. The
pattern then undergoes design revisions, followed by new CSS and
Javascript implementations. Testing of our implementations is a
priority, along with the cross-cutting concerns of internationalisation
and accessibility.

image:https://blog.patternfly.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/12/g10618-1-1024x561.png[g10618,width=580,height=318]

[[release-timeline-1]]
## Release Timeline

Work has already begun on PatternFly 5. The CSS rewrite is being done in
a patternlab instance, check it out at
http://www.PatternFly.org/patternfly-atomic/. Get involved with the CSS
rewrite in the
https://patternfly.slack.com/messages/css-army/[#css-army] channel of
the https://patternfly.slack.com/[PatternFly slack].

Similarly, work has begun on the webcomponent effort, finalizing the
details of our web component prototype. Check it out on github
https://github.com/patternfly-webcomponents and get involved via the
https://github.com/patternfly-webcomponents[#webcomponents] channel in
our https://patternfly.slack.com/[PatternFly slack].

Look for an initial alpha release with our PatternFly-core CSS
(including our new style updates) and a few initial web components in
the coming months.

[[future]]
# Future

While developing PatternFly 4 we will continue to do maintenance
releases of PatternFly 3, and will continue with PatternFly 3
maintenance releases until the bulk of our community has had a chance to
migrate to PatternFly 4. The migration of applications to PatternFly 4
is expected to be fairly straightforward.

Development of PatternFly 5 will take some time, with a potential
delivery in late 2017/early 2018. During the development of PatternFly
5, we will continue to introduce support for new patterns and components
in PatternFly 4. Once PatternFly 5 is released, we will continue to
develop new patterns concurrently in both PatternFly 4 and PatternFly 5
until the web-component browser support story of our our downstream
products allows us to consolidate our efforts on a single approach.

There are many opportunities to contribute to PatternFly as we push
forward on this roadmap. Whether you’re a designer, or a developer, or
even a writer, we encourage you to
http://www.patternfly.org/community[reach out to us and get involved] in
bringing this open source community project and help make it the project
you need it to be!
