---
layout: post
title: "Seam Faces Community Hack Night"
tags: [ seam, RichFaces ]
---

**<u><span class="Apple-style-span" style="font-size: large;">Seam Faces Community Hack Night!</span></u>**



This week's <a href="http://seamframework.org/Seam3">Seam 3</a> Community hack night is centered around <a href="http://seamframework.org/Seam3/FacesModule">Seam Faces</a>. &nbsp;This is a great chance to mingle with some CDI/JSF developers on <a href="http://seamframework.org/Seam3/Chat">IRC</a>, and get your fingerprint into the Seam Faces DNA! &nbsp;Whether you have your own itch you want to scratch, a long-standing bug you want to see resolved, or implement a new feature altogether, we've got plenty of low hanging fruit ripe for the picking!



In preparation for the hack-a-thon, I've given the Seam Faces JIRA issues a once-over. &nbsp;I've collected a number of issues that I feel are ready to be resolved into a JIRA version calles <a href="https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SEAMFACES/fixforversion/12318074">3.1.0-Tracking</a>. &nbsp;I'd like to highlight a few of the issues here, and perhaps motivate you to come join us at the hack-a-thon to resolve some of them!



**<a href="https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SEAMFACES-122">SEAMFACES-122</a>:&nbsp;Type safe navigation!**

Of all the low-hanging fruit, this one has to be the juiciest! &nbsp;Implement a Navigator utility class to map the @ViewConfig enums to their String @ViewPattern's for use in JSF navigation. &nbsp;Imagine using your IDE to find all usages of one of your views - type safety FTW!



**<a href="https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SEAMFACES-26">SEAMFACES-26</a>:&nbsp;Implement global protection against XSRF attacks**

Help the community of Seam 3 developers make their apps more secure by implementing a scheme to protect against XSRF attacks! &nbsp;Think hidden form field, view state and a random number generator.



**<a href="https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SEAMFACES-28">SEAMFACES-28</a>:&nbsp;ObjectConverter and EntityConverter**

Let's resurrect the Entity Converter from Seam 2. &nbsp;The EntityConverter is persistent context aware, and will use the primary key of your JPA/Hibernate entities to handle JSF Conversion.



**<a href="https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SEAMFACES-150">SEAMFACES-150</a>:&nbsp;Refactor BeanManagerUtils to make use of Solder's BeanManagerLocator**

Are you aware with the Seam Solder API? &nbsp;Want to learn more about how to wield this powerful tool? &nbsp;Here's a refactoring that will surely get you more comfortable with how to use Solder.



**<a href="https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SEAMFACES-6">SEAMFACES-6</a>: s:debug**

This issue is very well documented in JIRA, and just needs someone to put the pieces together. &nbsp;What a great tool to add to your arsenal once complete!



**<a href="https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SEAMFACES-185">SEAMFACES-185</a>:&nbsp;Add support for activating beans based on the JSF project stage**

<a href="http://community.jboss.org/people/chkal">Christian Kaltepoth</a> has done a great job with this issue, but we've got a tough nut to crack. &nbsp;How to parse the web.xml before the Servlet Context is available? &nbsp;If you got some ideas here, help us bring this one across&nbsp;the finish line.



**<a href="https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SEAMFACES-184">SEAMFACES-184</a>:&nbsp;Extend an example to demonstrate events propagation features**

Familiar with Seam Faces, but don't feel up to hacking on the core? &nbsp;How about writing an example application, to demonstrate some of Seam Faces' cool features?



**<a href="https://issues.jboss.org/browse/SEAMFACES-152">SEAMFACES-152</a>:&nbsp;Create documentation for using Seam Catch in Faces**

Another great way to contribute to the project, without writing a single line of code is to contribute docs! &nbsp;Help other Seam 3 devs figure out what you already know!



These are just a few of the issues ready to be solved during the hack night. &nbsp;So drop by on IRC, and give us a hand squashing some issues. &nbsp;At the very least, I'm sure you'll have fun!
